The President:
This week, the Senate passed a
plan that I proposed a few weeks
ago to protect middle class
Americans and virtually every
small business owner from
getting hit with a big tax hike
next year -- a tax hike of
$2,200 for the typical family.
Now it comes down to this: If
218 Members of the House vote
the right way, 98% of American
families and 97% of small
business owners will have the
certainty of knowing that their
income taxes will
not go up next year.
That certainty means something
to a middle class family who's
already stretched the
budget as far as it can go.
It means something to a small
business owner who's trying to
plan ahead.
That's security at a time when
folks could use some security.
And here's the thing: everyone
in Washington says they
agree on this.
Everyone says they agree that we
should extend the tax cuts for
the middle class.
When Democrats and Republicans
agree on something,
it should be pretty
easy to get it done.
But right now,
that's not the case.
Instead of doing what's right
for middle class families and
small business owners,
Republicans in Congress are
holding these tax cuts hostage
until we extend tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans.
You see, Republicans in Congress
and their nominee for President
believe that the best way to
create prosperity in America is
to let it trickle
down from the top.
They believe that if our country
spends trillions more on tax
cuts for the wealthy, we'll
somehow create jobs --
even if we have to pay for it
by gutting things like education
and training and by
raising middle-class taxes.
They're wrong.
And I know they're wrong because
we already tried it that way for
most of the last decade.
It didn't work.
We're still paying for trillions
of dollars in tax cuts that
benefited the wealthiest
Americans more than anyone else;
tax cuts that didn't lead to
the middle class jobs or higher
wages we were promised and
that helped take us from record
surpluses to record deficits.
We can't afford more
top-down economics.
What we need are policies that
will grow and strengthen the
middle class; that
will help create jobs,
make education and
training more affordable,
and encourage businesses to
start up and stay right here in
the United States.
That's why I've cut middle-class
taxes every year that I've been
President -- by $3,600
for the typical family.
That's why I've cut taxes for
small businesses 18 times.
And that's why I'm calling on
218 Members of the House to do
their jobs and not raise
taxes on the middle class.
As soon as they pass that
bill, I'll sign it right away.
And in the meantime, I'm going
to keep fighting for an economy
where we're not just
putting folks back to work,
but making sure that
work pays off --
an economy where every
American, no matter who you are,
what you look like, or
where you come from,
can have the confidence
that if you work hard,
you can get ahead.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.